Coronaviruses are a large group of viruses that are common among animals. The viruses can make people sick, usually with a mild to moderate upper respiratory tract illness, similar to a common cold. Coronavirus symptoms include a runny nose, cough, sore throat, possibly a headache and maybe a fever, which can last for a couple of days. Cases of pneumonia detected in Wuhan, China,  During this reported period, the virus is unknown. The cases  according to Wuhan Municipal Health. Chinese health authorities close the  after it is discovered that wild animals sold there may be the source of the virus. China announces that the unknown pneumonia cases in Wuhan are not SARS or MERS. In a  the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission says a retrospective probe into the outbreak has been initiated. Chinese authorities confirm that they have identified the virus as a novel coronavirus, initially named by the WHO. The Wuhan Municipal Health Commission announces the first death caused by the coronavirus. A 61-year-old man, exposed to the virus at the seafood market, died on January 9 after respiratory failure caused by severe pneumonia. Chinese health officials confirm that a second person has died in China. The United States responds to the outbreak by implementing screenings for symptoms at   China reports 139 new cases of the sickness, including a third death. On the same day, the WHO's confirms cases in Japan, South Korea and Thailand.   "The NIH is in the process of taking the first steps towards the development of a vaccine," says Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.  At an emergency committee convened by the World Health Organization,  The Beijing Culture and Tourism Bureau cancels all large-scale  celebrations in an effort to contain the growing spread of coronavirus. On the same day, Chinese authorities enforce a partial lockdown of transport in and out of Wuhan. Authorities in the nearby cities of Huanggang and Ezhou Huanggang announce a series of similar measures. Chinese President Xi Jinping  At the meeting, Xi and the WHO agree to send a team of international experts, including US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention staff, to China to investigate the coronavirus outbreak. The White House announces the formation of a new  that will help monitor and contain the spread of the virus, and ensure Americans have accurate and up-to-date health and travel information, it says. On the same day, the WHO determines that the outbreak constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). The  administration announces it will  who have traveled in China in the last 14 days.A man in the Philippines dies from the coronavirus --    The ship, which is carrying more than 3,700 people, is placed under quarantine scheduled to end on February 19.Li Wenliang,  who was  for trying to sound the alarm on a "SARS-like" virus in December, dies of the coronavirus. Following news of Li's death, the topics "Wuhan government owes Dr. Li Wenliang an apology," and "We want freedom of speech,"The US Embassy in Beijing confirms that a Xi inspects efforts to contain the coronavirus in Beijing,  On the same day, a team of international experts from WHO arrives in China to assist with containing the coronavirus outbreak.The Anthem of the Seas, a Royal Caribbean cruise ship, sets sail from Bayonne, New Jersey, after a coronavirus scare  China's state-run Xinhua News Agency announces that  Wuhan Communist Party chief Ma Guoqiang has also been replaced by Wang Zhonglin, party chief of Jinan city in Shandong province, according to Xinhua. A Chinese tourist who tested positive for the virus dies in France, becoming the first person to die in the outbreak in Europe. On the same day, Egypt announces its first case of coronavirus, marking the first case in Africa.   The official Communist Party journal  publishes the transcript of a speech made on February 3 by Xi in which he "issued requirements for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus" on January 7, Xi says in a phone call with British Prime Minister  that China's measures to prevent and control the epidemicaccording to state news Xinhua. The CDC changes criteria for counting confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in the United States and begins tracking two separate and distinct groups: that a clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the antiviral drug remdesivir in adults diagnosed with coronavirus  The first participant is an American who was evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked in Japan. In an effort to contain the largest outbreak in Europe, Italy's Lombardy region press office  of towns and villages that are in complete lockdown.   The patient, who didn't have any relevant travel history nor exposure to another known patient, is the first possible  US case of   places    amid growing criticism of the White House's handling of the outbreak.A state health official announces that a patient infected with the novel coronavirus in Washington state has died, . Autopsy results later reveal two Californians died of novel coronavirus in early and mid-February -- .   It is the first unscheduled, emergency rate cut since 2008, and it also marks the biggest one-time cut since then.  It is also announced that 23 members of Iran's parliament tested positive for the virus. The CDC formally  unless they had close contact with confirmed coronavirus cases. According to the CDC, clinicians should now "use their judgment to determine if a patient has signs and symptoms compatible with COVID-19 and whether the patient should be tested." Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte signs a decree placing travel restrictions on the entire Lombardy region and 14 other provinces,   In an Oval Office address,  The ban, which applies to the 26 countries in the Schengen Area, applies only to foreign nationals and not American citizens and permanent residents who'd be screened before entering the country.   that includes provisions for free testing for Covid-19 and paid emergency leave. At a news conference, officials from China's National Health Commission report  Secretary-General  calls for an immediate global ceasefire amid the pandemic to   and International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach  the  until 2021 amid the outbreak. The White House and Senate leaders reach an agreement on a  to offset the economic damage of coronavirus, producing one of the most expensive and far-reaching measures in the history of Congress. According to the , 6.6 million US workers file for their first week of unemployment benefits in the week ending March 28,  Globally, , according to Johns Hopkins University's . Trump says his administration is now , a reversal of previous guidance that suggested masks were unnecessary for people who weren't sick.Trump announces he is , saying the review will cover the WHO's "role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of coronavirus." Chilean health officials announce that Chile will begin issuing the world's first  to people who have recovered from coronavirus, saying the cards will help identify individuals who no longer pose a health risk to others.California's Santa Clara County  that show two Californians died of novel coronavirus in early and mid-February -- . The US passes one million confirmed cases of the virus, according to Johns Hopkins.The US Food and Drug Administration . FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn says remdesivir is the first authorized therapy drug for Covid-19.During a virtual pledging conference co-hosted by the European Union,  for the development and deployment of diagnostics, treatments and vaccines against the novel coronavirus.Trump and his administration announce that the federal government . The relief package signed on April 24 includes $25 billion for testing, with $11 billion for states, localities, territories and tribes. Dr. Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHO's health emergencies program, warns that the coronavirus .The WHO  into the global response to the coronavirus pandemic. WHO member states adopt the proposal with no objections , after the European Union and Australia led calls for an investigation., the first time since the beginning of the outbreak in December. Data collected by  reports that the coronavirus has , meaning that an average of  since the first known coronavirus-related death was reported nearly four months earlier.  Wuhan's Health Commission announces that it has completed coronavirus tests on 9.9 million of its residents with . New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern . , according to Johns Hopkins.  University of Oxford scientists leading the Recovery Trial, a large UK-based trial investigating potential Covid-19 treatments, .  The NIH . "A data and safety monitoring board met late Friday and determined that while there was no harm, the study drug was very unlikely to be beneficial to hospitalized patients with Covid-19," the NIH says in a statement.