(from the )120,538 sq km, slightly smaller than Mississippi 25,643,466 (July 2020 est.)34.6 yearsPyongyangRacially homogenous, with a small Chinese community and a few ethnic   Traditionally and Confucianist, with some and other sects $40 billion (2015 est.)$1,700 (2015 est.)25.6% (2013 est.)North Korea has no diplomatic representation in the United States. They do have a permanent mission to the .The United States does not have any diplomatic representation in North Korea. The Swedish Embassy represents the United States as consular protecting power.Japan controls the Korean peninsula. After Japan surrenders in , the United States occupies the southern half of the peninsula while the USSR occupies the northern half.Kim Il-Sung is the country's first leader.Separate governments for the northern and southern parts of the Korean peninsula are established after an international stalemate fails to resolve the issue.. Peace negotiations begin in 1951, but hostilities continue until 1953.  becomes the leader of North Korea when his father Kim Il-Sung dies. Kim Dae Jung, the leader of South Korea, and Kim Jong Il meet for the first time since the country was separated 50 years earlier.North Korea withdraws from the .Freight trains begin crossing the border between North and South Korea, resuming a regular service that last ran in the 1950s. After the United States and South Korea begin six days of joint military exercises, North Korea's foreign minister denounces the exercises and warns that North Korea will explore all countermeasures necessary for its protection. Approximately 27,000 US troops and the take part in the exercises. The freight trains that began crossing between the border of North and South Korea in December 2007 suspend service due to souring relations between the two countries, dashing hopes of reconciliation.  The Supreme People's Assembly holds elections, delayed since August 2008. Kim Jong Il is unanimously reelected in his district, with a reported 100% voter turnout.   sits down with Kim Jong Il to discuss the release of Lee and Ling. Both women are later given a full pardon from Kim and released. South Korea formally accuses North Korea of firing a torpedo to sink the Cheonan, a South Korean Navy ship, in March, killing 46 sailors. North Korea denies responsibility and warns that any retaliation would lead to "all-out war."South Korean President Lee Myung-bak severs all trade ties and asks the  to punish North Korea. North Korea's ruling party, the Workers' Party of Korea, meets for the first time since 1980. Kim is reelected as general secretary of the party. North Korea launches artillery at Yeonpyeong Island in South Korea, killing two South Korean marines. Military officials from both North and South Korea meet at the demilitarized zone (DMZ) on the border to defuse tensions and restart international aid talks without much success.  The US State Department refutes charges by  that the United States and South Korea are withholding food aid from North Korea for political motives. The United States had suspended aid two years ago to North Korea, because it suspected the donated food was not reaching those most in need.The UN World Food Programme announces plans to begin emergency food distribution to 3.5 million North Koreans, primarily women and children, who are starving after a harsh winter destroyed crops.   Kim Jong Il dies at the age of 69. , the youngest son of Kim Jong Il, assumes command of the North Korean army.  from the Sohae Space Center in Cholsan County and puts a "working satellite" into orbit, days after Pyongyang suggested the launch could be delayed.The United Nations condemns the recent North Korean rocket launch and expands existing sanctions against North Korea with Resolution 2087. North Korea's National Defense Commission says it will continue nuclear testing and long-range rocket launches, all of which are a part of an "upcoming all-out action" aimed at the United States, "the sworn enemy of the Korean people." A spokesman for the North Korean military announces the 1953 armistice agreement is being "scrapped," citing US-led international moves to impose new sanctions against it over its recent nuclear test. North Korea cuts its military hotline with South Korea. Earlier in the month a Red Cross hotline through Panmunjom is cut.  Kim Jong Un's uncle, , is executed. Jang had once been considered the second-most powerful person in the country. North Korea's official news agency accuses Jang of trying to overthrow the state, describing him as "despicable human scum."The UN Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights  in North Korea. . State media reports there is 100% voter turnout, and Kim receives 100% of the vote.The . In November, hackers broke into Sony's servers, published private emails and information and threatened to attack movie theaters screening "The Interview," a comedy about an assassination plot on Kim.The Russian Foreign Ministry announces an agreement that 2015 will be a "Year of Friendship" between the two countries and that Kim will visit Moscow.North Korea claims to arrest two South Korean men for "spying" and accuses them of collecting intelligence and military secrets from North Korea.South Korean lawmaker Shin Kyung-min says that according to an assessment by South Korean intelligence agents, Shin further says that four members of the Unhasu Orchestra were also executed in March.by fire from an anti-aircraft gun. An official with the South Korean Intelligence Service later tells CNN that while the agency was sure Hyon had been "purged," it had not confirmed whether he had been executed. North Korea  after an exchange of fire with South Korea, according to the country's state-run Korean Central News Agency. A day earlier, the two countries traded artillery fire over their heavily fortified border. after being accused of a "hostile act" against the government there, according to North Korean state media.  because of its recent nuclear test and missile launch -- both of which defied current international sanctions. The resolution aims to cripple parts of the North Korean economy that fuel its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. . By severely limiting North Korea's exports of coal and non-ferrous metals, such as copper, the UN expects to cut the country's revenue by more than $800 million every year. The  after the regime launched its ninth ballistic missile test of the year. in poor health and flown back to the United States after being held for 17 months. He had been in a coma for more than a year, according to his parents. Theon North Korea for its continued intercontinental ballisticmissile testing and violations of UN resolutions. near the US Pacific territory of Guam will be ready for Kim Jong Un's consideration in days. warns Pyongyang that " after North Korea fires a missile over Japan.The UN Security Council  on North Korea, a week after the rogue nation carried out its sixth and largest nuclear test.Trump, speaking to the UN general assembly, threatens to "totally destroy" North Korea if the United States is forced to defend itself or an ally.  by calling Trump a "deranged US dotard." on North Korea and praises China for taking action to limit financial transactions with the isolated communist nation.North Korea's on his country by tweeting in previous days that North Korea "won't be around much longer." White House press secretary Sarah Sanders says, "Frankly, the suggestion of that is absurd."Trump places North Korea back on the list of The Treasury Department announces  against North Korea.The  that will further strangle its energy supplies and tighten restrictions on smuggling and the use of North Korean workers overseas. , the US ambassador to the United Nations, claims the new sanctions, levied in response to Pyongyang's November 29 ballistic missile test, went even further than the sanctions passed in September that, at the time, were called the toughest yet.Kim Jong Un's sister, Kim Yo Jong, meets with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and to Moon from her brother to travel to North Korea for what would be the first meeting of Korean leaders since 2007.  against North Korea that specifically target the country's shipping and trading companies and vessels. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says it is "targeting all illicit avenues used by North Korea to evade sanctions." after determining that the government was responsible for the murder of Kim Jong Nam, a half brother of Kim Jong Un, who died in Kuala Lumpur last year after being exposed to a nerve agent that the United Nations considers a weapon of mass destruction.  against the North Korean government charging that their son was tortured and killed.During a day-long summit, , 65 years after hostilities ceased. The Punmunjom Declaration also calls for the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.  The three were released while US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was on a visit to Pyongyang to discuss the upcoming summit with Kim.  the South Korean presidency says in a statement.  They sign a four-point statement that broadly outlines the countries' commitment to a peace process. The statement contains a pledge by North Korea to "work towards" complete denuclearization but  After arriving at Osan Air Base in South Korea, the remains are sent to Hawaii where they will undergo DNA analysis to determine the identities of the soldiers.  hold a summit in Pyongyang. During the summit South Korean Defense Minister Song Young-moo and his North Korean counterpart No Kwang Chol ."The Trump administration announces in response to Pyongyang's ongoing human rights abuses and censorship.Kim and Trump meet in Hanoi, Vietnam, after Kim insists all US sanctions on North Korea be lifted.Kim and meet for the first time  Putin and Kim do not sign any documents or agreements after their meetings, nor were they expected to.  part of a series of provocative actions taken after the collapse of the summit in Vietnam with Trump.  He takes 20 steps beyond the border and shakes hands with Kim. Although the American and North Korean governments tout the historic nature of the meeting, their talks do not appear to have yielded any new commitments to denuclearization. The FIFA World Cup Qualifier match -- which was held at Kim Il-sung Stadium -- saw the two national teams draw 0-0. North Korean state media reports that a joint liaison office used for talks between itself and South Korea, located in the town of Kaesong just north of the demilitarized zone that divides the two Koreas, was  North Korea framed its decision to destroy the building as a retaliatory measure after a group of defectors used balloons to send anti-North Korean leaflets north of the DMZ.