The town of New Providence, N.J. may seem like an unlikely home for a company that’s just inked a new deal with Big Hit Entertainment (the label behind the global K-pop supergroup BTS) and raise
A South Korean court denied an arrest warrant request for Samsung Group heir apparent Jay Y. Lee, saying that although prosecutors’ secured “a considerable amount of evidence,” it was st
IBM CEO Arvind Krishna announced today that the company would no longer sell facial recognition services, calling for a “national dialogue” on whether it should be used at all. He also voi
While most air travel continues to be ground to a halt, a German startup working on what it hopes will be a major breakthrough in flying has raised more funds to continue building its service. Lilium,
Meet Silverfin, a startup focused on accounting software. This isn’t about helping small startups handle accounting tasks themselves. Silverfin wants to build the cloud service for small and big acc
Whether Wall Street agrees with the company’s last valuation (roughly $3.5 billion) or not, as a success story for founders to minimize dilution, it’s a really strong contender outside of pure boo
Like many working parents, Vlada Lotkina, the founder and CEO of ClassTag, wanted to be more involved in her daughter’s preschool education. A paper notice about an upcoming field trip, squeezed bet
Homeland Security’s cybersecurity advisory unit is warning Windows 10 users to make sure that their systems are fully patched, after exploit code for a “wormable” bug was published o
The killing of George Floyd and the nationwide protests that resulted have been a major wake-up call for many with regards to the role of policing in the United States. Yesterday, Floyd’s hometown o
New York-based fintech startup Wahed (meaning “One” in Arabic) describes itself as a digital Islamic investment platform and as the world’s first “halal robo adviser.” It has
After an indefinite postponement last week, Sony’s PlayStation 5 event is officially back on. The event has been rescheduled for a live stream on June 11 at 1:00 pm Pacific Time according to a t
Lemonade, a heavily-backed startup that sells renters and homeowners insurance to consumers, filed to go public today. The company (backed by SoftBank, part of the Sequoia empire, General Catalyst and
Twitter is developing a new in-app system for requesting verification, according to a recent finding from reverse engineer Jane Manchun Wong, which Twitter has since confirmed. The discovery involves
Researchers at MIT have published a new paper that describes a new type of artificial brain synapse that offers performance improvements versus other existing versions, and which can be combined in vo
Hello and welcome back to TechCrunch’s China Roundup, a digest of recent events shaping the Chinese tech landscape and what those events mean to people in the rest of the world. This week, we are se
The 2020 Ford Escape plug-in hybrid — a first for the SUV — comes with an EPA-estimated 37 miles of all-electric driving range and 100 miles per gallon equivalent, stats that will put the redesign
To help you prepare for what’s next, I’ve talked with software developers who’ve been through previous recessions to get their advice on what moves to make now to put yourself in the best positi
eMarketer tries to quantify the rise of e-commerce, Reddit’s co-founder steps down from the board and SpaceX focuses on its next-generation spacecraft. Here’s your Daily Crunch for June 8,
Google Maps is today introducing a series of new features to better inform travelers and commuters about how their trip may be impacted by COVID-19 — including travel restrictions, COVID-19 chec
What we have here, then, is not merely another unprofitable unicorn. We have a very low-margin, unprofitable unicorn, that is still drawing enough investor interest to raise its IPO range.
Jonathan Shieber
Catherine Shu
Devin Coldewey
Ingrid Lunden
Romain Dillet
Danny Crichton
Natasha Mascarenhas
Zack Whittaker
Brian Heater
Mike Butcher
Lucas Matney
Alex Wilhelm
Sarah Perez
Darrell Etherington
Rita Liao
Kirsten Korosec
Matt Martin
Anthony Ha
Sarah Perez
Alex Wilhelm