VOV.VN - National Assembly Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan on March 28 began visits to Morocco, France, and the European Parliament. She will later attend the 140th General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in Doha, Qatar.
Ms. Ngan’s trip, her second overseas trip this year, reflects the important role of parliamentary diplomacy in strengthening Vietnam’s relations with partners.Morocco is the first leg of Chairwoman Ngan’s 10-day tour. The Morocco visit is the first by a Vietnamese top legislator in 14 years. The two countries’ political ties have been strengthened by the establishment of a Joint Committee, regular political consultations, and mutual support at international forums. During Speaker of the Lower House of Morocco Habib El Malki’s visit to Vietnam in 2017, his first overseas trip as speaker, the two legislatures signed an MOU on inter-parliamentary cooperation. This was Vietnam’s first legislative cooperation agreement with an African country.During her ongoing visit to Morocco, Ms Ngan will discuss with Moroccan leaders ways to boost parliamentary, trade, investment, tourism, banking, and energy cooperation between the two countries, partnership between localities as well as trilateral cooperation between Vietnam, Morocco, and another African country. Moroccan Ambassador to Vietnam Azzeddine Farhane said, After Morocco, Ms Ngan will visit France. This visit is one year after Party leader Nguyen Phu Trong’s visit to France when the two countries celebrated 45 years of diplomatic ties. Ms Ngan’s visit aims to strengthen Vietnam’s strategic partnership with France and promote the outcomes of Mr. Trong’s visit and the realization of their joint statement on inter-parliamentary cooperation.The cooperation between the Vietnamese National Assembly and the European Parliament is one of the pillars of comprehensive cooperation between Vietnam and the EU. Through meetings, delegation exchanges, and candid dialogues, the two sides have strengthened mutual trust. Ms. Ngan’s visit aims to show the Vietnamese National Assembly’s support for Vietnam-EU cooperation and its readiness to work with the Vietnamese government and the European Commission to boost ties in all fields. Vietnam also wants to rally the EP’s support for the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement before the EP ends its current term. Chairman of the European Parliament’s Committee on International Trade Bernd Lange said, “We’re convinced that the trade agreement really brings benefits for economic growth. I would really appreciate if we can find commitment from both sides.”NA Chairwoman Ngan’s final leg of this trip will be Qatar, the host of the 140th General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. By participating in this meeting, Vietnam will demonstrate its commitment to promoting multilateral diplomatic activities, its active role in dealing with regional and global challenges, and its role as Vice Chair of the IPU in the 2018-2019 tenure.















Powered by ePi Technologies