A renowned iPhone hacking team has released a new “jailbreak” tool that unlocks every iPhone, even the most recent models running the latest iOS 13.5.
For as long as Apple has kept up its
The rationale behind the deluge of dollars flooding into billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio Platforms is beginning to become more clear as his e-commerce venture JioMart starts rolling out to
In the days and weeks after Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed the cybertruck — a post-apocalyptic inspired vehicle made of cold-rolled steel — there was a lot of speculation about whether it would be s
Conservative members of the United Kingdom’s government have pushed Prime Minister Boris Johnson to draw up plans to remove telecom equipment made by the Chinese manufacturer Huawei from the nat
Virgin Orbit held a press briefing on Saturday hosted by CEO Dan Hart and VP of Special Projects Will Pomerantz.
The company aims to fly its first ever orbital test launch on Sunday, at roughly 9:30 A
In many ways, Netflix’s new “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” special “Kimmy vs. the Reverend” is a delight.
For fans of the show, it’s a chance to catch up with Kimmy (E
Remember when the top investors and companies in tech were reacting to SoftBank's every move?
These days, we are picking through the latest results from the Japanese conglomerate and its Vision Fund t
We continue to look at how the pandemic is impacting the world of mobile apps.
Notably, we saw the launch of the Apple/Google exposure notification API with the latest version of iOS.
The global pandemic has cast a light on decades of cumulative efforts to manipulate and suppress voters, showing that the country is completely unprepared for any serious challenge to its elections sy
Nearly a year ago, Todd Howard, the director of Bethesda Games, said that the company’s “Fallout Shelter” game would be coming to Tesla displays.
It arrived, via the 2020.20 software update, thi
An eighth Amazon employee has died of COVID-19.
The news comes as the company is under scrutiny for failing to be more transparent about the wider number of infections among its warehouse workers.
A s
SaaS stocks are at it again, and I think I’ve got it figured it out.
More precisely I think I’ve figured out what other people think is going on.
After rigorous fact-checking by both readi
Organizers of the New York International Auto Show, once hoping to hold the rescheduled event in August, have decided to scrap the entire year.
The show has been officially canceled for 2020 due to th
The debate over device encryption isn’t dead, it was merely resting.
And it just won’t go away.
Working from home isn’t going anywhere anytime soon, and a slew of companies just announced longer-term initiatives to make their remote work practices either extend or permanent.
That means for
High-quality data is the fuel that powers AI algorithms.
Without a continual flow of labeled data, bottlenecks can occur and the algorithm will slowly get worse and add risk to the system.
It’s
Another tech company is joining the list of those planning on going remote for the long haul: Box .
Box CEO Aaron Levie announced this morning that the company will “remain a digital-first organ
The lead data regulator for much of big tech in Europe is moving inexorably towards issuing its first major cross-border GDPR decision — saying today it’s submitted a draft decision relate
Minecraft is one of the most popular games on the planet, so it’s natural that Microsoft, after buying creator Mojang some years back, would attempt to apply the genre’s playful, blocky ae
The global pandemic has halted travel, shunted schools online and shut down many cities, but the future of college-town America is an area of deep concern for the startup world.
College towns have don
Zack Whittaker
Manish Singh
Kirsten Korosec
Jonathan Shieber
Darrell Etherington
Anthony Ha
Jordan Crook
Darrell Etherington
Eric Eldon
Sarah Perez
Devin Coldewey
Kirsten Korosec
Brian Heater
Alex Wilhelm
Kirsten Korosec
Riana Pfefferkorn
Darrell Etherington
Kirsten Korosec
Greg Kumparak
Natasha Lomas
Devin Coldewey
Danny Crichton
Alex Wilhelm
Natasha Mascarenhas